In this lecture we're going to start
getting into the nitty gritty and
the details of R.
In particular I'm going to talk about
different data types that are used in R
and some basic operations
on those data types.
So first it's important to kind of
get the language right correctly.
So all the things that you manipulate in
R, all the things that we encounter in R,
are what might be called objects
objects can be all different kinds,
can contain all different kinds of data.
But everything in R, is an object.
So the R has five basic
atomic classes of objects.
So these are kind of
the very low level or,
or basic classes of objects and
they are character, numeric.
So these are like real numbers or
decimal numbers.
integers, complex numbers, and logicals.
So logicals are just
true a false type things.
And so the most basic object
in R is called a vector.
And a vector conta-,
Can contain multiple copies of, for
example, of a single type of object.
So you can have a vector of characters or
a vector of integers, one thing you cannot
do with a standard vector is have mixed
types of objects you cannot have a vector
of characters and numerics, or numerics
and integers, or integers and logicals.
It, everything in a vector
has to be the same class.
Of course, with any great rule,
there's always an exception, and
this, this one is no exception.
So, in this, with vectors,
there's one type of vector that
can have multiple different types of
classes, and that's called a list.
So a list is represent as a vector, so
there's a se, it's a sequence of objects.
But each element of that
vector can be a different,
can be an object of a different class.
So for example, you can have a list.
That has a character,
that has a numeric, it has a logical.
You can have a list that's inside
the list and one element of
the list can be a data frame so,
any element of the list can be anything.
And that's an,
actually why what makes list so useful.
So the list is the one
exception to the ot to the.
General rule that a vectors can only
contain elements of the same class.
So you can create an empty
vector with the vector function.
And the vector function
has two basic arguments.
The first argument is
the class of the object, so
the type of object that you
want to have in the vector.
And the second argument is
the length of the vector itself.
Perhaps the most important type of
object in R of course is the number.
So numbers in R are generally treated as
what are called numeric objectsum, so
pretty much all numbers are treated as
double number precision real numbers.
So, even if you are looking at a number
that's like one or two, R thinks of those
numbers as numeric objects there is a way
to explicitly say you want an integer and
you can specify the L subs, the L suf,
the capital L suffix there.
So for example,
if you just enter the number 1 in R,
that gives you a numeric object.
But entering 1 with a capital L next
to it explicitly gives you an integer.
This distinction is not very
important right now, but,
it will become important later.
There's also a special number called inf,
which stands for
infinity and, and inf is like a real
number it can be used in calculations and
you will get the expected result.
So, for example, if you take one,
divide it by zero,
you'll get infinity and if you take 1 and
divide it by infinity you'll get zero.
So, emphasis special number, and
you can also have minus infinity, too.
There's another special
value called NAN or Nan.
And this represents an undefined value so
you can name it as not a number.
So, for example, if you take zero over
zero that's not a number It's not defined
so you'll get a Nan back Nan can also
be thought of as a missing value but
we'll talk a little bit more about
missing values a little bit later so
another thing that, that comes with
each object in R is an attribute.
So not every, object in R
necessarily has attributes, but,
but they are, but
attributes can be part of an object in R.
Some of the most common types of
attributes that we'll encounter are
namesor dim names, or, or dimension names.
A dimension, so
a matrix will have dimensions for
example it will have a number of rows and
a number of columns if you
have a multidimensional array you'll
have more than two dimensions.
The class of the object, so
every object will have a class.
So for example,
numeric objects their class is numeric and
integer objects, their class is integer.
Every object also has a length.
So for a vector it's quite simple
the length of the object is
just the number of elements in the vector.
And then there may be other
user-defined attributes or
metadatas which, so these are things
that you can define separately, for
an object using various
attribute functions.
There is a general function called
attributes which allows you to set or
modify the attributes for an R object.